Bureau of Justice Statistics "Title: Estimated number of persons supervised by
U.S. adult correctional systems, by correctional status, 1980-2014" "Data
source:  Bureau of Justice Statistics, Annual Probation Survey, Annual Parole
Survey, Annual Survey of Jails, Census of Jail Inmates, and National Prisoner
Statistics Program, 1980-2014"

Refer questions to: askbjs@usdoj.gov or 202-207-0765 Date of version: 1/12/2016

Estimated number of persons supervised by U.S. adult correctional systems, by
correctional status, 1980-2014

Note: Estimates may not be comparable to previously published BJS tables or
reports due to updated information. Counts were rounded to the nearest 100 and
include estimates for nonresponding jurisdictions. All probation, parole, and
prison counts are for December 31; local jail counts are for the last weekday in
June.

Total Correctional Population Note: Includes persons living in the community
while supervised on probation or parole and incarcerated in state or federal
prisons or held in local jails. Includes adjustments made to account for
offenders with multiple correctional statuses to prevent double counting of
individuals: prisoners held in local jails were excluded from the total
incarcerated and total correctional population counts; starting in 1998,
probationers who were incarcerated in prisons or local jails were excluded from
the total correctional population count;  starting in 2005, parolees who were
incarcerated in prisons or local jails were excluded from the total correctional
population count; and starting in 2008, parolees who were also on probation were
excluded from the total community supervision and total correctional population
counts.

"Total Community Supervision Population Note: Includes persons living in the
community while supervised on probation or parole and some offenders held in a
prison or local jail but who remained under the jurisdiction of a probation or
parole agency. Starting in 2008, parolees who were also on probation were
excluded from the total."

Total Incarcerated Population Note: Prisoners held in local jails were excluded
from the total to prevent double counting.

1998-1999 Note: Coverage of probation agencies was expanded. Therefore, the
total correctional, total community supervision, and probation population counts
may not be comparable to prior years.

Sources: Bureau of Justice Statistics, Annual Probation Survey, Annual Parole,
Survey, Annual Survey of Jails, Census of Jail Inmates, and National Prisoner
Statistics Program, 1980-2014.
